---
title: Codecepion 1.5.2
layout: post
date: 2013-01-21 01:03:50
---

Yet another minor release. It introduces more compact form for unit tests.

{% highlight php %}
<?php
use Codeception\Util\Stub;

class UserRepositoryTest extends Codeception\TestCase\Test
{
    protected function _before()
    {
        $this->user = new User();
    }

    public function testUserIsNotAdmin()
    {
        $this->assertFalse($user->isAdmin());
    }

}
?>
{% endhighlight%}

We moved all Codeception's setUp and tearDown routine into parrent class and left you more clean `_before` and `_after` methods for your preperations.
They act just the same as `setUp` and `tearDown` for PHPUnit. So `_before` is executed before each test and `_after` after it.
Tests should look more clean now. If your tests already have setUp and tearDown methods nothing is changed for them.

### Accessing Modules in Unit Tests

Another nice feature for Symfony2 users and not only them. Form now on you can access a module from your unit test.
This is done to access public properties of your module. For example, here is how you can retrieve a **Symfony Dependency Injection Container**:

{% highlight php %}
<?php
protected function _before() 
{
	/**
	* @var $container Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Container
	*/
	$container = $this->getModule('Symfony2')->container;
	$this->em = $container->get('doctrine');
}
?>
{% endhighlight%}

Also we'd like to announce the upcoming modules for **Yii** and **Laravel** frameworks.

In the meantime we will release more complete guides on How to integrate framework to Codeception.

### Bugfixes

* Composer build is finally is stable and doesn't require `minimal-stability: dev`. Thanks to: [jacobkiers](https://github.com/jacobkiers).
* Adding support of `pecl_http` by [phpcodemonkey](https://github.com/phpcodemonkey).
* Methods of Guy received documentation and examples (phar bug).
* `generate:cest` command requires a tested class name no more.
* [PostgreSQL](https://github.com/Codeception/Codeception/issues/117) driver improved .

### Update

 [redownload](https://codeception.com/thanks.html) your `codeception.phar` for update:

{% highlight bash %}
wget https://codeception.com/codecept.phar -O codecept.phar
{% endhighlight %}

for composer version

{% highlight bash %}
$ php composer.phar update
{% endhighlight %}

or via PEAR:

{% highlight bash %}
$ pear install codeception/Codeception
{% endhighlight %}


