---
title: Codeception 1.5.6
layout: post
date: 2013-03-10 01:03:50
---

Codeption 1.5.6 released with varous fixes to Selenium2 module (popups, screenshots) an other bugfixes.
We added a bunch of tests for Selenium2 and they are runnng on TravisCI. 
Also, Codeception is now compatble with Symony 2.2. And few features were intrduced. 

### Basic Fixtures

Very basic implementation of fixtures was added to Db and Mongo modules.
Now you can write something like:

{% highlight php %}
<?php
// for Db
$I->haveInDatabase('users', array('name' => 'davert'));
// for Mongo
$I->haveInCollection('users', array('name' => 'davert'));
?>
{% endhighlight %}

to add data for a test. For Db module, the inserted record will be cleaned up on text test, even If `cleanup` option is set to false. So `haveInDatabase` method cleans data after itself.
Something similar exists for Doctrine2 module. Yet, it looks not like for Db and Mongo implementation:

{% highlight php %}
<?php
$I->persistEntity(new \Entity\User, array('name' => 'Miles'));
{% endhighlight %}

### Error Handling

From now on you can set custom error handling parameters per suite or globally.

{% highlight yaml %}
class_name: WebGuy
modules:
    enabled: [PhpBrowser, WebHelper]
error_level: "E_ALL & ~E_STRICT & ~E_DEPRECATED"
{% endhighlight %}

Actually, `E_ALL & ~E_STRICT & ~E_DEPRECATED` is default error level for now. This may be changed in future.

### Bugfixes

* popups and modals in Selenium2 are fully tested and work correctly now
* screenshots in Selenium2 module is saved correctly
* `seeInField` method works correctly even if field is not in form
* fix to AMQP module to push message to queue
* Symfony 2.2 compatibility

### Update

 [redownload](https://codeception.com/thanks.html) your `codeception.phar` for update:

{% highlight bash %}
wget https://codeception.com/codecept.phar -O codecept.phar
{% endhighlight %}

for composer version

{% highlight bash %}
$ php composer.phar update
{% endhighlight %}
