---
layout: post
title: "Codeception 1.6.7"
date: 2013-09-14 22:03:50
---

This release is minor, yet fixes lots of bugs you might have encountered. If you didn't encounter them, well, then, lucky you. Still it's a good idea to upgrade. 

Here is the list of changes.

* **fix to 80 port issue**, if you had problems connecting to server via PhpBrowser, then this must be it. Thanks to **@tiger-seo**.
* fix in REST module when using `application/json` header and passing parameters.
* **seeJsonResponseContains** of REST can now search on all nesting levels. Details below.
* fix to Sequence module.
* Step class code improved by **guilhermeFranco**
* Using suite with defined namespace was improved by **@Borales**.
* Generators fixes by **@piccagliani** and **davert**.

## Rest Module Chnages Example

*added on 09/15/2013*

`seeJsonResponseContains` behavior is less strict now. Now you it checks for any inclusion of provided json in Response, and works for unordered arrays as well. Here is an example.

{% highlight php %}
<?php
$response = '{"ticket": {"title": "Bug should be fixed", "user": {"name": "Davert"}, "labels": null}}';
$I->seeResponseContainsJson(array('ticket' => array('title' => 'Bug should be fixed')));
$I->seeResponseContainsJson(array('name' => 'Davert'));
$I->seeResponseContainsJson(array('user' => array('name' => 'Davert')));
?>
{% endhighlight %}

In previous versions, only the first assertion would pass. But now `seeJsonResponseContains` will scan for inclusion on all levels of response json. 

There was no other way to get it tested unordered arrays. Until 1.6.7.
Here is a sample response:

{% highlight json %}
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Dalhousie Website",
        "url": "http://www.dal.ca",
        "hashed_url": "ad920603a18be8a41207c0529200af45"
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Wikipedia - Brasil",
        "url": "http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brasil",
        "hashed_url": "01203b7a9a2a27c22bc828419d4b7dc9"
    }
]
{% endhighlight %}

And test part that was failing in previous versions:

{% highlight php %}
<?php
$I->seeResponseContainsJson(['url' =>  "http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brasil"]);
?>
{% endhighlight %}

Example taken from [#330](https://github.com/Codeception/Codeception/issues/330)
The case here, if you didn't know the index of element, you couldn't verify it with `seeJsonResponseContains`.
If you were using indexes, tests still should work for you.

Another change is checks for `null` values in response. Actually, we deserialized them in empty strings `""`, and this was a regular workaround to replace `null` with `""` in tests as proposed in [#381](https://github.com/Codeception/Codeception/issues/381). But if you did that, you should update your tests for 1.6.7, as `null` work as expected now.

So this is the changes that might affect your tests. If you got issues. `seeJsonResponseContains` has much more detailed output on fails, so it would be easier to find the cause and get it fixed.

### Update

[redownload](http://codeception.com/thanks.html) your `codeception.phar` for update:

{% highlight bash %}
wget http://codeception.com/codecept.phar -O codecept.phar
{% endhighlight %}

for composer version

{% highlight bash %}
$ php composer.phar update
{% endhighlight %}





