# Configuration

## Global Configuration

Configuration file `codeception.yml` is generated by `codecept bootsrtap` command and contains all parameters for running Codeception.

Example:

``` yaml
paths:
    tests: tests
    log: tests/_log
    data: tests/_data
    helpers: tests/_helpers
settings:
    bootstrap: _bootstrap.php
    suite_class: \PHPUnit_Framework_TestSuite
    colors: false
    memory_limit: 1024M
    log: true
modules:
    config:
        Db:
            dsn: ''
            user: ''
            password: ''
            dump: tests/_data/dump.sql 
```

### Parameters

#### Paths

* tests - path to test directory
* log - path to log directory, where tests output stored
* data - path to data directory, where tests input data may be stored
* helpers - path to [helper](/docs/03-Modules#helpers) modules with custom actions and assertions

#### Settings

* bootstrap - the bootstrap file always loaded before each step. Can be useful for loading fixtures. But probably you want manual control, then remove this line and use `require_once '_bootsrtap.php'` inside tests.
* suite_class - suite is used as a tests container. 
* colors - colored ooutput, by default is `false` on Windows and `true` on other systems. Install [ANSICon](http://adoxa.110mb.com/ansicon/) on Windows and set to true.
* memory_limit - PHP memory consuming parameter. Increase this value if you run out of memory.
* log - weather to log tests execution process to file.

#### Modules

This section is used to configure a module for all suites. If you got module shared through all suites, put their configuration here.

## Suite Configuration

Each suite has it's configuration file in `tests` directory. It's used for configuring modules used in test scenarios.

Example:

``` yaml
class_name: WebGuy
modules:
    enabled:
        - PhpBrowser
        - WebHelper
    config:
        PhpBrowser:
            url: 'http://localhost/myapp/'
```

### Parameters

* class_name - a [Guy class](http://codeception.com/docs/02-GettingStarted#guys) used in this suite.

#### Modules

* enabled - a list of modules. The order of list *matters* as the next modules can replace actions from previous ones.
* config - config of module. The configuration parameters for each module is documented on pages for each module. There are required and optional pameters. 

Examples:

Configuring [Db](http://codeception.com/docs/modules/Db) module:

``` yaml

modules:
	enabled [PhpBrowser, WebHelper, Db]
	config:
		dsn: 'mysql:host=localhost;dbname=testdb'
		user: root
		password:
		dump: tests/_data/dump.sql 
```

Configuring [Selenium2](http://codeception.com/docs/modules/Selenium2) module:

``` yaml
modules:
	enabled: [Selenium2, WebHelper]
	config:
		Selenium2L:
			url: http://localhost/
			browser: filrefox
			delay: 10
```